---
layout: gallery
title: Music Players for Ubuntu
---
I've been working on Ubuntu as my default OS for quite some time, event going ahead and installing [BackTrack][], [Mint][], [Fedora][], and even [Fuduntu][]. As of now I'm working on the latest and greatest version of Ubuntu, Natty Narwhal (11.04). Whenever people come to Ubuntu, the first thing they complain about is the fact that it lacks codec support. Since 10.04, Ubuntu offers to automatically install properietry codecs on first install, so it is lesser of a complaint now. But if you feel that you are missing out on some non-free utils, just install `ubuntu-restricted-extras` to install Flash, Java, Codecs and several other things. 

Since this is a list of various music applications on Ubuntu, I will start with the most common ones, and move on to the newer ones in the field. However, I will be paying more attention to the lesser-known players.

* [Banshee][] is the default music player, and is quite slick, and offers almost everything that you may need. As a bonus it offers video playback as well, and easily one of the most well-known players. Banshee has grown quite a lot since the decision to make it the default was taken. However it still lacks a few features, including the support for Genres. Since Banshee is made using mono, it is also available for Windows as well. Its newer versions allow easy Online Media support for the Amazon MP3 Store, Ubuntu One Music center as well as other sources (last.fm, miro). However, I've also disliked its design perspective as in it wastes too much space on the left pane. Especially for a person who does not use online stores at all, the left pane seems redundant. It also features Syncing, Smart Shuffles, DAAP servers, and cover art fetching.

* [Rhythmbox][] used to be the default player in Ubuntu before 11.04 and many people are still using it as their primary music player. I, personally do not have much experience of using it, but it is known to be a very stable player running with a GStreamer backend. It's similar to Banshee in its feature set, and its interface is quite similar as well.

* [Audacious][] is one of my favorite music players. It was started as a [Winamp][] like player which even offered support for Winamp skins. But recently its gnome interface has gotten a makeover making it my default player of choice. The player has tabbed playlists (much like [Aimp][]) and offers drag-n-drop between playlists. Also, my favorite feature of simple queing is present, allowing me to decide the next n songs across various playlists (yes, you can add songs from differnt playlists to the queue by just pressing q). 
I like the fact that it is completely controllable from the keyboard, which is a big plus for me. It even includes lots of widgets, which are highly customizable. For eg, the Audacious OSD plugin can be used to simulate the notify-osd, or you can just use Song-Change plugin to actually call notify-osd from Audacious. There are also plugins for Scrobbler support, Alarms, Lyrics, and Album-Art support. Some of the plugins (like lyrics, album art) create new windows which can be docked in the interface anywhere. Support for Visualization is also good, although one might like a few more visualizations to choose from. Various Winamp-like DSP plugins (crossfade, echo etc) are also present and usable easily. All in all, a very good music player, if you're of the kind that puts on a playlist on shuffle, and forgets about it, only occasionaly remembering a song and queing it. Highly recommended. 
As a negative point, it only saves playlists in the xspf format, which means it not might be compatible with other players.

* [Beatbox][] is a new music player which is currently under development for the [elementaryos][eos] project. It is still under works, but already offers several features, including playlists, scrobbling, history, recently played tracks, Similar Tracks, and genre browsing. The similar tracks feature is one of my favorites, and uses Last.FM to detect similar tracks in your collection. A grid layout view is also under the work. Searching is pretty quick as well, and works on the fly. However it is still far from a complete player, but will definately be an important contender for it in the future. A limited id3 editor is also provided, along with a rating system for the library.

* [Minitunes][] is a visually stunning player, using two panes, one for the browser, and another for the track listings. The left pane can be used to browse the collection as Artists/Albums/Folders. Folder browsing is something that many other players lack, and is a welcome addition. However its stunning and easy to use interface can be quite hard to use at times. For eg a play button on each Artist/Album/Folder just adds the entire stuff to the now playing list. There is no support for different playlists, and you need to double click on an artist to view its albums. Drag and drop works from left pane to the right, and also works for multiple tracks. Right-clicking anywhere does not yield anything, and is something not usually seen in music players. However the jewel of the vrown for this application is its Info View.
Info View is one of the most amazing Now Playing screens I've ever seen (after [Zune's][]). It includes, on a 3 column layout, Artist Bio (with Pic, links to Last.FM), the album/game on Amazon, and lyrics to the song. It's so simple, yet it works for me. Minitunes is made as something that is easy to use, and looks good at the same time. Try it out once, and you won't be dissapointed.

* Some other native clients include **DeadBeef**, **YaRock**. Deadbeef is similar to audacious in its looks, and is designed to be a minimal player. While YaRock is a native client build using QT. I did not find either of them to be upto the mark, but there is certainly a scope of improvement in both these projects. Deadbeef also comes as an android player as well.

* There are also several options involving other multi-platform clients that you may have earlier used or heard about on Windows. For eg, you can use [XBMC][], [Real Player][rp] as well [VLC][] on linux quite easily. Running wine gives you the option of using Windows native clients (like [Winamp][], [Aimp][] etc) on Linux.

* Other options that I'm aware of, but have not yet tried out include [Clementine][cl], [Boxee][], [Songbird][], [Bluemindo][], [Amarok][]
